---
title: "12.0-U7.1"
weight: 2
---

{{< include file="/static/includes/General/LifecycleTable.html.part" html="true" >}}

**December, 2021**

iXsystems is pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 12.0-U7.1! This is a maintenance release that includes all the bug fixes and quality of life improvements from the [TrueNAS 12.0-U7 release]({{< relref "/ReleaseNotes/CORE/12.0U7.md" >}}).  

For those with FreeNAS installed on your system, we recommend [updating]({{< relref "/core/system/update/#truenas-core" >}}) or [upgrading]({{< relref "/CORE/System/Update/" >}}) to [FreeNAS 11.3-U5](https://download.freenas.org/) first and then upgrading to TrueNAS 12.0-U7.1 with a single click to retain roll-back options. While it is an easy web update, we do recommend waiting to update your system’s zpool feature flags until you are finished validating your performance and functionality.

For those with TrueNAS HA systems and support contracts, we recommend contacting iXsystems Support to schedule an upgrade. We will verify your systems’ health, configuration, and support the upgrade process as part of the “white glove” service that comes with any support contract.

{{< expand "Contacting iXsystems Support" "v" >}}
{{< include file="static/includes/General/iXsystemsSupportContact.html.part" html="true" >}}
{{< /expand >}}

Please check out the updated [TrueNAS documentation](https://www.truenas.com/docs/) even if you don’t upgrade today. We’re extremely grateful for all the contributions received thus far and encourage more user suggestions going forward.

## TrueNAS 12.0-U7.1 Changelog

### Bug

<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-113240'>NAS-113240</a>] -         smbd crashes while freeing tree connection if user can&#39;t chdir() into connectpath
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-113356'>NAS-113356</a>] -         intermittent smbd crash during session logoff
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-113393'>NAS-113393</a>] -         crash during snapshot enumeration in zfs_fsrvp - regression in port to samba 4.13
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-113744'>NAS-113744</a>] -         regression in hook_setup_ha on CORE
</li>
</ul>

## Known Issues

<body class="ql-editor ql-editor-view" style="font-size:14px;">
  <html>
    <body>
      <table width="100%">
        <thead>
          <tr>
            <th>Key</th>
            <th>Summary</th>
            <th>Workaround</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td></td>
            <td>Asigra Plugin Upgrades</td>
            <td>Asigra users running version <b>14.2.0.2 or earlier</b> requires a TrueNAS CLI upgrade procedure to update to a new plugin version. In the TrueNAS web interface, open the **Shell** and enter <code>iocage upgrade asigra-plugin-name</code>, replacing <code>asigra-plugin-name</code> with whatever unique name was created for the plugin.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-106992" target="_blank">NAS-106992</a></td>
            <td>Persistent L2ARC is disabled by default.</td>
            <td>While the underlying issues have been fixed, this setting continues to be disabled by default for additional performance investigation. To manually reactivate persistent L2ARC, log in to the TrueNAS Web Interface, go to <b>System > Tunables</b>, and add a new tunable with these values:
                <ul>
                    <li>Type = <code>sysctl</code></li>
                    <li>Variable = <code>vfs.zfs.l2arc.rebuild_enabled</code></li>
                    <li>Value = <code>1</code></li>
                </ul>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td></td>
            <td>TrueNAS "root" user account cannot be an SMB user.</td>
            <td>This is an intentional change to improve software security and suitability for deployment in a variety of environments. Update the SMB configuration to use a different user account.</td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>
    </body>
  </html>



